docs/microsoft/windows/1-windows-misc.md, before:

# Windows - 01 - Misc

---

## Find process that uses a port

Open CMD prompt as admin

```console
C:\> netstat -ano -p tcp | find "50307"
```

Last column shows the PID that uses the port

```console
C:\> netstat --help

-a Displays all connections and listening ports.

-n Displays addresses and port numbers in numerical form.

-o Displays the owning process ID associated with each connection.
```

In PowerShell

```console
C:\> Get-Process -Id (Get-NetTCPConnection -LocalPort 50307).OwningProcess
```

---

## Grep equivalent

find "50307" or findstr 50307

```console
C:\> netstat -ano -p tcp | findstr 50307
```

You can find the application based on the PID on the Processes tab in Windows Task Manager.

[netstat](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/netstat)

---

## Kill process

```console
C:\> taskkill /F /PID pid_number
```

---

## Unable to bind port

[SRC](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15619921/an-attempt-was-made-to-access-a-socket-in-a-way-forbidden-by-its-access-permissi)

Windows Power Shell in admin mode:

```txt
Restart-Service hns
```

Maybe it will be necessary to do it twice!

---

## Path

PATH shortcut:

```txt
Windows key + type "path" in search field
```

---

## Voice input

To dictate text into a field, hit:

```txt
Windows + H
```

To change field focus:

```txt
Windows + Alt + H
```

---

## Terminal

### Split

Hit `ctrl + shift + p` and search for `split`.

---

## Gif pause play

How to pause play of an animated gif:

- Right click on gif file, saved on your computer  
- Open with an another application  
- Choose `Windows multi media player` from the list

---

## VPN Sophos

Add new remote IP address.

Edit configuration to add new remote IP address by opening a notepad in admin mode, browse for `.ovpn` configuration file in `C:\Program Files (x86)\Sophos\Sophos SSL VPN Client\config` folder.

Add new remote address on top of the list of the already present ones, save, restart Sophos client.

---

## Copy result of command in clipboard

Add pipe + clip to command (be aware that there might be a "return" character in the result):

```console
echo Hello, world! | clip
```

---

Commit message:

windows and wsl copy result of a command in clipboard fix

docs/microsoft/windows/1-windows-misc.md, after:

# Windows - 01 - Misc

---

## Find process that uses a port

Open CMD prompt as admin

```console
C:\> netstat -ano -p tcp | find "50307"
```

Last column shows the PID that uses the port

```console
C:\> netstat --help

-a Displays all connections and listening ports.

-n Displays addresses and port numbers in numerical form.

-o Displays the owning process ID associated with each connection.
```

In PowerShell

```console
C:\> Get-Process -Id (Get-NetTCPConnection -LocalPort 50307).OwningProcess
```

---

## Grep equivalent

find "50307" or findstr 50307

```console
C:\> netstat -ano -p tcp | findstr 50307
```

You can find the application based on the PID on the Processes tab in Windows Task Manager.

[netstat](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/netstat)

---

## Kill process

```console
C:\> taskkill /F /PID pid_number
```

---

## Unable to bind port

[SRC](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15619921/an-attempt-was-made-to-access-a-socket-in-a-way-forbidden-by-its-access-permissi)

Windows Power Shell in admin mode:

```txt
Restart-Service hns
```

Maybe it will be necessary to do it twice!

---

## Path

PATH shortcut:

```txt
Windows key + type "path" in search field
```

---

## Voice input

To dictate text into a field, hit:

```txt
Windows + H
```

To change field focus:

```txt
Windows + Alt + H
```

---

## Terminal

### Split

Hit `ctrl + shift + p` and search for `split`.

---

## Gif pause play

How to pause play of an animated gif:

- Right click on gif file, saved on your computer  
- Open with an another application  
- Choose `Windows multi media player` from the list

---

## VPN Sophos

Add new remote IP address.

Edit configuration to add new remote IP address by opening a notepad in admin mode, browse for `.ovpn` configuration file in `C:\Program Files (x86)\Sophos\Sophos SSL VPN Client\config` folder.

Add new remote address on top of the list of the already present ones, save, restart Sophos client.

---

## Copy result of command in clipboard

To get result of a console command copied into the clipboard, add pipe + clip to command (be aware that there might be a "return" character in the result):

```console
echo Hello, world! | clip
```

---
